---
layout: post
title:  "The Role of Education"
date:   2013-02-11 10:12:52
categories: life education
---

Today I would like to expand on my previous post, and talk about the role of education. It’s a topic that has been the center of many arguments for years, and I have formed my own ideas about what we should and shouldn’t be teaching our students at certain times. To be more specific, I would like to focus on high school students, that is students from grades 9 to 12. From my experience, when a student finishes grade 8, he or she has not been offered any choice in which courses were taken. Up to this point, each class has been mandatory. As far as I know, these courses are designed by the government to make sure students going through the education system know, or at the very least been exposed to, certain things by the time they begin high school. Once students enter high school, this starts to change as early as grade 9, where they are offered a few choices of courses in categories that reflect broader topics such as social sciences, technology, and the arts. By the time grade 12 rolls around, the only mandatory course left is English.

Now for those of you who really didn’t like high school English, I have some bad news: I actually agree with making English mandatory all the way through. What I don’t agree with, is what is typically taught in these courses. I don’t know about you, but my memory of high school English consists mostly of being forced to read books I wasn’t really interested in, and generally feeling like I wasn’t benefiting too much from the course overall. I think deep down, I knew it was a good idea to be literate and somewhat cultured, but the stuff they teach in high school English just isn’t for everyone. Along the same lines, math isn’t for everyone either, but it’s mandatory up until grade 11. I’ve heard before that we learn all the math we need for everyday life by the end of grade 9. If that’s true then why make it mandatory beyond that? I do believe that math is an extraordinary field and people should definitely be exposed to it, but I also believe that it could be taught in a very different way. In my experience, people like knowing why they are supposed to do something. It makes them more willing to do it if they’re given a reason. It’s something I’ve notice about myself and something I think is true for other people as well. There’s nothing worse than being told to do something, and as a curious mind you ask “why?” Then the person responds with “because I said so,” or “because that’s the way it is.” Education is supposed to be the path on which we explore and gain knowledge from tons of different avenues, and when people get tired or frustrated with education, things go downhill. If people aren’t interested in what they’re doing they are so much less likely to excel at it.

I’m not saying people have any idea what they’re really interested in when they’re in high school, and of course interests change over time, but at least try to emphasize subjects other than math and English. If people really want to take visual art, music, and drama all the way through high school, then why not let them? Of course they would still have to take English the whole time so they can communicate well, but after the all the skills necessary to survive in the adult world are taught, why not let students choose what they want to study? Chances are students might select courses that they are interested in, and hopefully excel at. Now I know some of you are thinking that some courses are way easier than others, and to that I say, what makes a course easy? Some of the responsibility would lie on the teachers to make sure the students were learning the material or skills necessary to get a good grade, whatever the course may be. The following video is a TED talk that’s subject is along the same lines as what I’m talking about today. It’s a bit lengthy but hilariously delivered:

[Ken Robinson TED Talk](http://www.ted.com/talks/ken_robinson_says_schools_kill_creativity.html "Ken Robinson TED Talk")

The story at the end about the dancer is what really got to me. That teacher made one of the smartest calls I’ve heard of in my life. Just because someone is struggling in school does not mean that they have a learning disability or any other such thing, it may just mean they haven’t found their passion yet. For Gillian Lynne it was dance. Sometimes I wonder how many students out there don’t find their passion because they are too busy taking mandatory courses. Too busy that they don’t have a free slot for a course they thought they would like but didn’t have room for. Education provides a gateway to so many wonderful things, both in and out of the classroom, and I hope that we can continue to improve that by inspiring more and more students to find something that they absolutely love doing.
