---
layout: post
title:  "Why the NHL Should Have Shorter Seasons"
date:   2013-06-17 10:12:52
categories: sports hockey
---

So this post is about hockey. More specifically, it’s about why the National Hockey League (NHL) regular season is too long. First of all, let me say that I love and probably always will love hockey. Sure my interest waxes and wanes to a certain degree depending on how busy I am or how awesome the team is doing. That’s not to say I’m a bandwagon fan, but it’s definitely easier and more fun to get really involved when your team is winning a lot of games.

This year as some or most of you may know, there was a lockout. It lasted for about half the season, which is pretty long in the grand scheme of things. Not as bad as the longest one however (the previous one), when the whole season was scrapped. Needless to say, hockey fans everywhere were really pissed that hockey wasn’t on, and a lot of us were super excited when it finally came back. Because of the lost time, there had to be a short season, 48 games to be precise. Now half the games means half as much time to get into the groove, and each game means twice as much as usual. On top of that, there were no inter-conference games this year either so it was really difficult to make up ground for the playoff race. Now I definitely want there to be inter-conference play, as I’m one of the people who think that every team should play every other team at least once each year, but there was something about the shortened regular season that I thought was very appealing. You hear players talk about “the grind” during the regular season because there are so many games and it really takes a toll on the body and the mind. Take football (American) for example, there are not that many games in a season. Each game is really important and they get a long break before the next one. I’m not saying hockey should be like that, but with less games over a similar amount of time, there might be way fewer injuries. There would also be more time for those injuries to heal, so players wouldn’t miss as many games. Having a team riddled with injuries is one of the most frustrating things, and they could do something to mediate them, I would be all for it.

I also think the playoffs run too far into summer. It’s the Stanley Cup final now, but it’s pretty much summer. It would be nice if it was over by the end of May or even as early as April. I don’t fee as strongly about that but I think it’s worth consideration. I also think the quality of hockey is better with fewer games, because the players put more effort into each one knowing that they don’t have so many others to make up for the ones they lose. It sounds a bit lazy, but I believe the quality of hockey this year was at least marginally better than in previous years overall.
